so student protests in solidarity with
Palestinians are continuing to gain
momentum spreading across the United
States and around the globe police in
New York have removed students from a
solidarity encampment at New York
University similar operations at
Columbia University and UCLA and other
universities have seen more than 2,000
people arrested in Berlin Police blocked
the entrance to humbl University
arresting several people who were also
protesting in solidarity with
Palestinians in Paris now police removed
at least 50 protesters occupying parts
of CPO University six of the protesters
had been on hunger strike and were
staging a Sittin well we'll be hearing
from our correspondents in both Paris
and Berlin shortly let's start though in
the United States Mike Hannah is at
George Washington University John hendin
is at the University of Michigan and
Kristen salumi is at a police station
near New York University so you're there
Kristen because there have been arrests
in New
York absolutely the last two student
encampments were cleared out early this
morning much to the student surprise
about 60 of them were arrested 14 uh 16
of them from New York University the
rest from the new school and they were
taken to the Police Plaza which is
behind me uh to be processed you can see
the police presid presence outside here
and as you look around there's a whole
support team here waiting for the
students as they're released from being
processed one by one they've been coming
out there's a legal team here uh there
are students with water students with
medical supplies students with food uh
to show their support and give them
assistance when they come out of the
police processing system and as those
students come out they're being cheered
uh by the students here and I should say
faculty members as well we've seen a lot
of Faculty coming and going there's at
least 100 maybe 200 people uh around the
corner offering that support uh the
students I've been speaking to here say
that it uh was an unexpected arrest that
at NYU in particular just yesterday they
were speaking with the administration
and the administration told them they
had no plans to clear the encampment
they think uh the fact that a large
dinner for Shabbat with Jewish students
about 20 Jewish students was planned in
the building right next to where they
were set up for that evening may have
been a trigger for the for the uh
arrests that they didn't want to have
any conflict or any uh any um
interaction happening there the students
say however that they are a peaceful
organization uh many of the students
that were in the encampment including
some who were arrested are themselves
Jewish and now they are planning their
own Shabbat dinner outside of that one
uh where the encampment was later today
uh to continue the demonstrations to
continue the protests they say if
anything this has invigorated them more
and they're not going to stop all right
Kristen thank you very much that is how
the encampment was dealt with at uh the
site of the New York University let's go
to John hendin who's at the University
of Michigan in an Arbor Michigan John uh
all right well I have Parton my answer
because I see the tents behind you uh I
know that there are graduation
ceremonies taking place today I wonder
whether that might also be a flash point
because universities usually don't like
their graduation ceremony to be
disrupted that's right it seems that
other universities have definitely
cleared out these encampments before
their graduation ceremonies which we
we've seen in New York I don't know if
that was part of the timing but I'll
tell you we're probably two three
football fields away from where a
graduation is going on right now and yet
this protest here continues uh as it has
been for some time um and on Saturday
one day from now uh 8,000 people will
graduate in a massive ceremony with
63,000 people watching so apparently
protests and graduations can coexist uh
but I've got someone who can tell us a
little more about this this is Salma
hamami thank you for joining us Salma
she's with students for justice in pales
um if let me know if I've said that
wrong um no you said it correctly so
tell me
like how is it with how is the protest
coexisting with the graduations right
now yeah so protests are always going to
exists when our University remains
complicit in the ongoing genocide in
Gazza and has been directly and
indirectly contributing financially to
the military companies that are bombing
RDA so we cannot operate as business as
usual so the university is going to try
their absolute best to do that however
students are always going to be five
steps ahead of them and they are going
to plan and they are going to coordinate
um students here are absolutely
committed and dedicated which is why
they are withholding themselves back
from any and all celebratory actions to
commit two actions for gazda and we will
see that take place through every single
graduation across the country and let me
ask you've got a personal connection uh
with with Palestine talk to me about
that yeah so I am from nablas I also
have members in Gazza about 14 of them
were recently killed in an ongoing
Israeli um attack um I'm sorry to hear
that thank you I appreciate that um and
not only myself but also several
students here have lost hundreds of
family members in Gazza um because
Palestinians have been scattered all
throughout the world so the resistance
and the resilience continues to exist
here within the confines of an arbor and
Beyond so students here have personal
connections and students here who also
don't have personal connections are
witnessing this and will stand up
excellent and and just one quick
question you are going to remain here
after graduation correct yes despite
myself myself graduating um I am from an
arbor I will be here I will be wherever
um the place is that is contributing to
the genocide against my people we are
going to continue to fight so students
here are not backing down thank you s
hamami from students for justice in
Palestine thank you for joining us um so
we're here at this encampment and they
say that they're going to remain here
after graduation right and I'm and I'm
glad you asked that last question John
because it is the end of the Academic
Year typically students go back home so
it does raise the question of the
lasting power you know of these of these
uh these protests I'll go to Mike now
Mike Hannah is at George Washington
University in Washington DC so we see
every University deals with it
differently where you are you know this
triangle of law enforcement police um
university leadership and the protesters
seem to have found a way to coexist for
these protests to continue peacefully
where do you see this
going well the key issue was the refusal
of DC police to accept the call by
University administrators to move in and
remove the encampment uh when it began 9
days ago but another key issue here as
well is the uh self-regulation of the
demonstrators they hold a meeting at
11:00 they go through all the rules of
the encampment uh only a chosen
Representatives speak to police speak to
the media so all is very tightly
organized uh exams begin tomorrow the
end of year exams the ones that were due
to take place in buildings around
University y this area had been moved to
other buildings and then commencement
graduation takes place on Sunday the
19th that's in uh just over 2 weeks time
so the question of whether the students
will remain there after commencement
that is something uh that is open to
speculation uh those we have spoken to
are insistent that yes they are going to
remain okay so you see this sorry let me
rephrase um they say that they will
remain that is yet to be seen sometime
during the month of May usually is when
students go home they say they're going
to stay there um Mike as you take a
broader look at this what's the impact
of these protests been um you were
telling us you know there are multiple
ways to look at this there's the
politics of it there's and there's
there's how much these protests actually
move the needle on the national stage
which is always hard to
assess yes it does move the needle on
the national stage it is a reminder to
Americans of what happened in the
protests against the Vietnam War way
back in the 60s uh those were heavily
criticized but resulted to a degree in
the end of the war so this is a point of
discussion among the American public uh
these protests are a point of dispute
among many of the public some support
them some don't uh but what is an
undercurrent of discussion as well is
the fact that while they remain lawful
they have a right to exercise their
voice now this is an American principle
it's part of the Constitution and it is
being exercised while no laws are
contravened and just one extra word on
that uh to understand why the students
here are self regulating to this degree
uh you just have to take a walk through
the food court behind me here there are
DC police but there are also Secret
Service agents there are protection
officers from the state department there
are paramedics from the nearby hospital
which is a presidential emergency
hospital this square is at the epicenter
of some of the nation's most secure and
vulnerable and sensitive sites the
security around them is unbelievable the
demonstrators are well aware that
security around them goes far beyond the
local DC police it is layer upon layer
upon layer and hence no red lines are
crossed they are very careful to observe
the law to its letter you're right
that's a very good point that you made
there's a lot less room there for
unpredictability and disruption
generally around these protests just due
to where they are geographically so
close to the White House and the state
department thank you very much Mike
Hannah make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
alera